hello welcome back to recap central
today we will be recapping captive state
2019 a sci-fi thriller about aliens
invading and controlling chicago well
let's get started
after a global alien invasion
chicago is placed under martial control
in 2019
aliens ambush the drummond family as
they seek to depart the city
the aliens vaporize the parents but save
their two boys gabriel and rafe by the
year 2027
the earth has bowed to the legislators
from outer space surrendering to their
rule
humans have been drafted to construct
alien homes known as closed zones to
which only the highest government
officials have access chicago police
special branch commander william
mulligan john goodman who was paired
with gabriel's father before the
invasion confronts gabriel drummond
ashton sanders a resident of the poor
pilsen area
gabrielle refuses to provide any
information to mulligan who believes the
phoenix resistance organization has not
been neutralized despite popular
perceptions to the contrary gabriel
meets with a phoenix member to sell a
hand-rolled cigarette containing
confidential information obtained from a
colleague
his brother rafe majors the head of the
resistance meets him in wicker park
rafe snatches the coated cigarette from
gabriel and tells him to get the hell
out of dodge because phoenix is
preparing an attack on the forthcoming
unity rally at soldier field
mulligan who had been watching gabriel
shows up at gabrielle's apartment just
as he's about to leave and he confronts
him once again
gabriel manages to elude mulligan by
slipping into cover beneath the earth
after deciphering chicago's surveillance
code rafe's team can see where police
enforcement is stationed and how many
officers are on duty
during the onslaught rafe and other
phoenix members use an unseen alien
explosive device against the invaders
they also attack the unity rally
although the attack looks to be a
success at first the city is quickly
closed down and overrun by security
personnel in
retaliation the aliens are enraged and
send out hunters from another planet to
find the offenders which leads them to
reef and his cohorts anita when rafe is
about to consume cyanide to escape
mulligan shoots and arrests him before
he can do anything about it during a
police raid gabriel comes out of hiding
but he gets arrested
mulligan shows him his brother being
tortured for information and encourages
him to send a message through the
phoenix network to see the purported
ringleader number one
gabriel is ultimately brought to jane
doe a prostitute who runs a brothel in
pilsen and calls him by name confounding
him
police conduct a raid at the residence
and doe is assassinated doe used a bug
in her house to record talks with
special branch agents and get sensitive
information according to the inquiry
the tapes indicate that police
commissioner eugene aigo kevin dunn
disclosed critical information regarding
the arrival of the aliens at soldier
field allowing phoenix to prepare their
attack strategy
igo reef and a slew of others are exiled
and mulligan is elevated to acting
commissioner after proclaiming the
chicago threat handled rafe's scheme
failed and gabriel bemoans it to
mulligan privately
retrieving from dozebox mulligan
discovers a blackberry phone which he
gives to gabriel along with the memory
card implying that failure was the plan
all along
gabrielle takes a look at what's inside
the card which includes a video of his
baby shower and information on jane doe
who worked at the same school as his
mother
mulligan was presented to them at the
shower by various members of phoenix and
the film concludes with mulligan leaving
a message for gabriel urging him to
carry the flame of phoenix mulligan on
the other hand has been permitted to
speak with the legislators who are
hiding underground
there is an unseen material that
surrounds him as he falls
this shows him to be an agent of the
resistance and that everything that has
happened thus far has been arranged so
that he may take out the legislators
with one final lethal stroke during the
closing credits a map shows that the
closed zone has been demolished as well
as other resistance strikes and rallies
in places throughout the world implying
that the opening exhortation to light a
match and ignite a war has driven
mankind to overcome their alien rulers
thank you for watching if you enjoyed
the recap consider subscribing to see
more recaps like this
tune in until next time